Israel's prime minister Benjamin
Netanyahu has formed an emergency Unity
government with opposition leader Benny
Gans Gans a former Army Chief is also to
be part of a three-man war cabinet led
by Netanyahu they'll be joined by
defense minister yav Galant netanyahu's
far right and Al Ultra Orthodox Jewish
allies are to remain in government but
Parliament will have no say on matters
relating to the conflict Netanyahu has
promised to in Words Crush and Destroy
Hamas in retaliation for its terrorist
attacks and I am now joined by our
correspondent Tanya Kramer who is in
Jerusalem for us Tanya it's good to see
you what is the mood in Israel on day
five of Israel's war with
Hamas well I think it's a bit difficult
to generally describe the mood but I
mean you could say in Jerusalem uh West
and East it is unusually quiet we also
have seen this in in Tel Aviv in the
past days and also in other cities many
shops are closing early um uh people are
very worried basically what is there to
come and people don't seem to like to be
you know very much outside uh there's a
sense of uncertainty uh here uh what the
next uh days and weeks will
bring Tanya tell us more about the
emergency wartime government that prime
minister Mr Benjamin netu has formed uh
with the
[Applause]
opposition well I think it would have
been Unthinkable uh to have such a Unity
uh government just a few days ago um the
opposition leader Benny guns had refused
before to join Benjamin Netanyahu uh we
are coming here out of a internal crisis
since January thousands of uh Israelis
were going to the streets demonstrating
every week against the controversial
judicial overhaul of the farri religious
government and what this Unity
government or emergency government now
wants to show is uh they want to
reassure Israelis they want to show
we're taking care of that because there
are also a lot of questions why this
could happen the way it happened what
unfolded on Saturday and uh it's also
the makeup or the setup of this
government and this smaller War cabinet
it's all people with a u military
background we have former Chiefs of
Staff we have former and current defense
ministers there and that of course goes
also we have a minister for National
Security far right Minister it bangua he
will not be part of that so basically
it's saying we're taking care of this
situation and we have to overcome this
division that is basically the message
now to the Israeli
public Washington's top Diplomat is on
his way to Israel what do we know about
Anthony blinken's
visit
yeah he's on his on on his way uh he's
being dispatched here in a way uh to
show uh uh to Israel that um it has the
US has its back he said it himself
before um boarding uh the plane on his
way way here he will meet uh Israeli
officials uh prime minister Benjamin
Netanyahu isra president herzo as well
uh there will be certainly talking about
military assistant uh there's already uh
some um military equipment arrived and
uh the US has sent a large aircraft
carrier uh to the region uh they will
also we heard this warn basically other
parties and I think um other parties to
join this conflict basically to open
another front uh and to prevent a vider
conflict but they also are expected to
talk about um uh Missing uh American
Nationals there's still uh some
Nationals also
Americans unaccounted for and some that
are believed to have been uh taken
hostage all right that's Alanya Kramer
reporting for us in Jerusalem thank you
Tanya and I'm now joined by a
spokesperson for the Israeli military
Masha mitchelson Miss Michelson welcome
to DW there is a desperate need uh for
humanitarian Aid in Gaza as we speak um
will Israel help open a corridor for
this Aid to flow into
Gaza the coordination of humanitarian
Aid to this area is being
discussed uh the decision will be made
by the political Echelon after they've
assessed the situation right now the IDF
is focused on securing the border and
targeting Hamas military targets within
the Gaza Strip and as you do that uh
Miss Michelson we know we're talking
about an area that is densely populated
the Gaza that is how are you
distinguishing between Hamas terrorists
your enemy and innocent
civilians the IDF has various protocols
in place to minimize the harm to
civilians but uh you could ask what
measures did Hamas take when they
infiltrated our Villages and killed over
a thousand people over two
days the IDF is targeting Hamas military
targets the problem is and we've been
saying this for years that Hamas is
hiding behind their people if a
terrorist organization is hiding
missiles and launchers and ammunition
underneath kindergartens and schools and
mosques it becomes a lot more difficult
to warn civilians the IDF is still
attempting to do that because we care
about the citizens of Gaza a lot more
than they do but our first priority is
to protect our country and to make them
pay for the great mistake that they
made on Saturday
morning understandably so but Israel
also has the
responsibility uh to abide by the rules
of engagement and that is you have an
obligation to protect civilians in
Gaza again various protective measures
in place the IDF is attempting to
minimize civilian harm in Gaza but we're
striking terrorist targets and if
there's a terrorist there shooting
missiles at Israel he will be
struck Miss Michelson how far are you in
your efforts to free the hostages that
have been taken into Gaza can you give
us an update on that there are military
efforts to uh finish identifying the
bodies something that only began
happening a day or two ago as we cleared
the southern area mostly of terrorists
and it became more or less secure to
move around there so families right now
are trying to identify their loved ones
a task made immeasurably more difficult
by the gruesome ways Hamas has massacred
and butchered those people people burned
decapitated uh so we're taking DNA
samples waiting till our bodies are
ident identified and we're Gathering the
final number of hostages and trying to
get their locations to see how we can
move forward so if I understand
correctly you're not sure exactly how
many hostages are in
Gaza we have a general number we're
trying to exactify it right um you're
having to fight Hamas in Gaza as you as
you pointed out um you're also having to
defend against attacks uh potential
attacks as well uh by hisb in the north
is Israel uh in a good position or or
does Israel have the capacity to be able
to essentially fight a war on two fronts
here because that's what it looks
like over the last few days since the
beginning of the war Israel has had the
most efficient recruitement of
reservists in its history 300,000 people
reported for Duty in 48 hours not all of
those recruited into the southern front
some of them moved up North so the 91
division of the IDF is fully prepped and
ready for any threat that comes its way
so far the IDF is operating in the north
and keeping it relatively contained
there have been uh some incidents that
have been dealt
with you're presumably planning a ground
offensive um I'll be interested if you
could tell us a little bit more about
perhaps when we can expect to see that
happening um but also what do you need
from your Western allies right now in
terms of a support to be able to carry
out uh that ground
offensive
I would leave the timing of the ground
offensive and the decision itself to the
political Echelon we have a security
cabinet that has been presented all
plausible military options to make that
decision considering all the factors um
but right now what we're focusing on is
securing the border and we're
stabilizing our force that have
recruited we have reservists that need
to be trained and prepped for all
further options on the point about
securing the borders are there still
Hamas militants in
Israel
if there are there are very few and they
will be met uh with IDF fire shortly
just yesterday we had an infiltration
close to ber three uh terrorists were
killed in that engagement with idea
forces we are placing our forces armored
vehicle tanks aerial supervision around
the border and anyone who tries to get
close to the fence and infiltrate into
Israeli territory will be
shot Miss Michelson we know that the
stated goal as we're hearing it from
Israel's political leadership uh is to
eradicate Hamas um my question then is
when you are done with Hamas in in Gaza
um you'll be left with a vacuum does
Israel intend to reoccupy Gaza then is
the plan that Israeli troops will have
to remain in in in Gaza for for an
extended period after that
operation I will not delve into the
larger strategy of the ID F again as I
said there's been military options that
have been presented to the security
cabinet and we just want to make sure
that Hamas has no ability to attack
Israel like they did on Saturday that
was the deadliest attack on the state of
Israel since the day of its
formation are you any closer to
establishing uh why this planned attack
by Hamas was missed by Israeli
intelligence we're getting this question
a lot and it's very important
everybody understands it but this
important question needs to be answered
properly properly being without bias
calmly thoroughly and that means that
the state of Israel and the people of
Israel need to be safe in their homes
with their loved ones without the
country being under attack When The War
is Over the IDF will make sure that all
those questions are answered and the
answers are given to the public just
coming back back and perhaps we can
leave it then here uh to the the ground
offense of that R World anticipating um
what are some of the Tactical challenges
uh that awaits on that
front I wouldn't know when a ground
Invasion would happen but as you stated
yourself the territory of Gaza is highly
uh densely populated and I would think
that the main challenge there is moving
between the streets um while considering
that they have aial capab capabilities
that there are still tunnels in Gaza and
that we would need to be aware of
a have to stop you there thanks very
much ma'am our program has come to a
close we appreciate your being on the
program today thank
you thank
you all right we want to get some
analysis now on the security situation
with military expert a familiar face
here Marina she's from Kings
College London Mar it's good to see you
Israel's response so far has been to
launch air strikes on alleged Hamas
Targets in Gaza how effective is this
type of military power against um an
organization like
Hamas well it is a good question because
um so far the IDF claimed to have struck
2,300 Targets in
Gaza how effective it is is difficult to
say at the stage in military terms
whether it managed to weaken the
capabilities to strike um command and
control uh points of Hamas because Hamas
Was preparing for this and Hamas has
studied the Israeli military approach
over the years they have encounters with
the IDF that being said the political
cost for Israel launching these attacks
because of their indiscriminate n
creating um a lot of um collateral
damage is difficult and specifically
difficult it is for the overall um power
dynamics in the Middle East and the
normalization of Israeli relations with
the likes of Saudi Arabia and Qatar
because this seems to be hanging in the
air so the political cost might be very
high for Israel
regardless of what the military will be
achieving this ground offensive in your
opinion is this just a matter um not of
if but of when and is it even possible
that Israel would not start this ground
offensive well it seems to be that
Israel has met the resolve to indeed
start this um ground operation we don't
know when exactly ly but if they have
decided so we might be seeing some
movement soon that being said it will be
quite difficult because of the nature of
the operation and because of the fact
that this is precisely something that
Hamas probably wanted to provoke knowing
the controversial nature of the
operation knowing how the Israeli
military operates and knowing how
difficult the terrain is because as we
have seen from many analysts the attacks
prepared by the Hamas they haven't been
prepared in two weeks they have been
prepared for for possibly many years
building underground tunnels and getting
all the necessary ammunition and
Military Support from um regimes like
the Iranian regime and also from other
militant groups like Hezbollah and so
the risk here is that this ground
operation might trigger something bigger
namely opening of another front
um um in the north where on the border
with Lebanon and hollah has already
launched some attacks in order to
signalize it meaning that Israel could
see itself surrounded if this was to
escalate military expert Marina
from King's College London as always
Marina thank
you